hiiiiiiiiiiiii! 
Sport is a significant part of life in India. The country has a very long sports history, with sports being a part of tradition, culture, finance and entertainment. People in India closely follow various sports and enthusiastically participate in them. Cricket is the most popular spectator sport in the country, and citizens often play it as a recreational activity; it generates the highest television viewership, and features full-capacity audiences in stadiums during international and Indian Premier League (IPL) matches. It is part of popular culture. However, in more recent decades, football has also become another popular sport in terms of broadcast viewership and stadium audience attendance.[2][b] Kabaddi has grown into the mainstream, as well as badminton, tennis, and athletics. India are the one of the power houses in field hockey. India won World Cup & multiple medals in field hockey in Olympics. During that time, Dhyan Chand was a notable player. Sports such as swimming and badminton are played as recreational activities and for exercise.[6]

India celebrates its National Sports Day annually on 29 August, on the birthday of India's greatest hockey player, Major Dhyan Chand.[7]

In recent decades Government of India and Ministry of Youth Affairs and Sports of India tried to boost the sport in the nation by launching and frequently organising new national sports events such as Khelo India Youth Games (KIYG), Khelo India Winter Games and Khelo India University Games (KIUG) of Khelo India games in various cities across the nation.[c] Thousands of youngsters participated in it. The first Khelo India School games was held in 2018.[d] The initiative also focused on building new infrastructure. KIYG and KIUG are set up as annual events for youngsters, who represent their states and universities in them. So far, the Sport ministry of India has organised many editions of these games.[9][10]

India does not have a national game.[11][e]

India's diversity in culture, people, and tribes is reflected in the wide variety of sporting disciplines in the country. Due to this, some indigenous sports are popular in some regions such as fighter kite and boat racing (including Vallam kali and Vallomkali).

Sports such as golf, rugby, boxing, kickboxing, mixed martial arts, and motorsport are popular to some extent in a few places.[13] Wrestling was and is popular in some states.

